feat: rename paid actor to rental actor (#671)
apify/apify-docs: sources/platform/actors/running/store.md

---

> > Anyone is welcome to [publish Actors](/platform/actors/publishing) in the store, and you can even [monetize your Actors](/platform/actors/publishing/monetize). For more information about how to monetize your Actor, best practices, SEO, and promotion tips and tricks, head over to the [Getting the most of your public Actors in the Apify Store](/academy/get-most-of-actors) section of the Apify Developers Academy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Anyone is welcome to [publish Actors](/platform/actors/publishing) in the store, and you can even [monetize your Actors](/platform/actors/publishing/monetize). For more information about how to monetize your Actor, best practices, SEO, and promotion tips and tricks, head over to the [Getting the most of your public Actors in Apify Store](/academy/get-most-of-actors) section of the Apify Developers Academy.
```

All actors in [Apify Store](https://apify.com/store) fall into one of these three pricing models:

1. [**free**](#free-actors) - you can run the actor freely and you only pay for platform usage the actor generates.

> 2. [**rental**](#rental-actors) - same as free, but in order to be able to run the actor after the trial period, you need to rent the actor from the developer and pay a flat monthly fee on the top of the platform usage the actor generates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [**rental**](#rental-actors) - same as free, but in order to be able to run the actor after the trial period, you need to rent the actor from the developer and pay a flat monthly fee on the top of the platform usage the Actor generates.
```

> **For more information on platform usage cost see the [usage and resources](./usage_and_resources.md) page.**

### Rental actors

> Rental Actors are like free Actors, but with a slight difference. When you use a rental Actor, you pay a fee to the its developer. This empowers the developer to dedicate more time and effort to their Actors, thus ensuring these Actors are of the **highest quality** and receive **ongoing maintenance**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rental Actors are like free Actors, but with a slight difference. When you use a rental Actor, you pay a fee to its developer. This empowers the developer to dedicate more time and effort to their Actors, thus ensuring they are of the **highest quality** and receive **ongoing maintenance**.
```

![Free and rental Actors in Apify Store](./images/store/free_vs_paid_actors.png)

Each rental Actor has a **free trial,** where the trial's length is always shown for each rental Actor.

![Rental Actors in Apify Store](./images/store/paid-actors-store.png)

---

![Rental Actors free trial](./images/store/paid-actors-trial.png)

> After a trial, a flat monthly **Actor rental** fee is automatically charged from your prepaid platform usage in advance for the following month. This fee goes directly to the developer, and it is paid on top of the platform usage generated by the Actor. You can read more about our motivation for releasing rental Actors in [this blog post](https://blog.apify.com/make-regular-passive-income-developing-web-automation-actors-b0392278d085/) from Apify's CEO Jan Čurn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a trial period, a flat monthly **Actor rental** fee is automatically charged from your prepaid platform usage in advance for the following month. This fee goes directly to the developer and is paid on top of the platform usage generated by the Actor. You can read more about our motivation for releasing rental Actors in [this blog post](https://blog.apify.com/make-regular-passive-income-developing-web-automation-actors-b0392278d085/) from Apify's CEO Jan Čurn.
```

Since Actor rental fees are paid from prepaid platform usage, these fees conceptually belong under platform usage.

> Hence, you can find the breakdown of how much you have been charged for rental Actors on the bottom of the **Platform usage** tab in the [Billing](https://console.apify.com/billing) section. The overall sum will also be visible in the usage bar chart and the table on the top of the same tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the breakdown of how much you have been charged for rental Actors at the bottom of the **Platform usage** tab in the [Billing](https://console.apify.com/billing) section. The overall sum will also be visible in the usage bar chart and the table at the top of the same tab.
```
